= SubscribedTo

Abstraction layer for managing mailing list subscription information for your user model. It makes the basic mailing list management tasks super simple.

The gem creates callbacks on your model for <tt>after_create</tt> and <tt>after_update</tt>.

The <tt>after_create</tt> callback registers the user for the mailing list if <tt>subscribed_to_list</tt> is true (ie: the user chooses checks the "Join the mailing list" box on the registration form).

The <tt>after_update</tt> callback will update the user subscription or member details. It will either:

* Unsubscribe the user from the mailing list if they have so requested
* Subscribe the user to the list if they weren't already subscribed
* Update the user's member subscription details on the mailing list for any specified <tt>merge_vars</tt> when they change
* Do nothing if neither the subscription status nor the attributes specified in the <tt>merge_vars</tt> hash change

=== Requirements

* Rails 3.x

=== Supported Services

<b>MailChimp</b>

via the Hominid gem - http://github.com/terra-firma/hominid

API v1.3 - http://apidocs.mailchimp.com/1.3

* listSubscribe
* listUnsubscribe
* listUpdateMember


<b>Constant Contact</b>

Planned

== Installation

Add the gem to your Gemfile

  gem "subscribed_to"

Install the gem using bundler

  bundle install

Run the generator. You must specify the name of your user model.
Other options:

<tt>--skip-migration</tt>::    Do not generate the migration file to add the required column
<tt>--service=SERVICE</tt>::   Specify which mailing list service you subscribe to (currently only supports "mail_chimp")

  rails generate subscribed_to:install MODEL

If you run the generator with <tt>--skip-migration</tt>, then you must be sure to to include the <tt>subscribed_to_list</tt> column in some other migration.

  t.boolean :subscribed_to_list, :default => false

Be sure to run the migration before you continue.

=== Initializer Configuration

After the initializer has been generated, you must set your mail service configuration options. The initializer is located at: <tt>config/initializers/subscribe_to.rb</tt>

==== Mail Chimp

Set your API key

  mail_chimp_config.api_key = "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX-us1"

Set up your mailing lists to subscribe users to. List names can be any valid symbol.

<tt>:id</tt>::          id of list - get this from the "Settings" page of your list
<tt>:merge_vars</tt>::  hash of merge vars on list. The key is a string which corresponds to a merge var on your mailing list. The value is a symbol corresponding to the attribute/method on the user model related to the specified merge var. It MUST at least include "EMAIL" (do not use "MERGE0").

  mail_chimp_config.lists = {
    :mailing_list => {
      :id => "xxxxxxxx",
      :merge_vars => {"FNAME" => :first_name, "LNAME" => :last_name, "EMAIL" => :email}}}

=== User Model Configuration

You must enable *SubscribedTo* in your user model with <tt>subscribed_to</tt>.

The only paramter it takes is a symbol which corresponds to a list in the <tt>mail_chimp_config.lists</tt> hash.

  subscribed_to :mailing_list

You may also need to specify <tt>subscribed_to_list</tt> as an accessible attribute.

  attr_accessible :subscribed_to_list

=== View Configuration

To get things working with the view, just include a checkbox input on your user registration/edit forms.

  = f.check_box :subscribed_to_list
  = f.label :subscribed_to_list, "Join the mailing list"

== Contributing to subscribed_to

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Eric Salczynski. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

